Tuples interfaces generics (#52891)
dotnet/docs: docs/csharp/fundamentals/types/tuples.md

---
title: "Tuples and deconstruction"
description: Learn how to use tuples to group related values, deconstruct tuples into separate variables, compare tuples for equality, and choose tuples over anonymous types.
ms.date: 04/10/2026
ms.topic: concept-article
ai-usage: ai-assisted
---
# Tuples and deconstruction

> [!TIP]
> **New to developing software?** Start with the [Get started](../../tour-of-csharp/tutorials/index.md) tutorials. You'll encounter tuples when you need to return multiple values from a method or group values without defining a named type.
>
> **Experienced in another language?** C# tuples are value types similar to tuples in Python or Swift, but with optional named elements and full deconstruction support. Skim the [deconstruction](#deconstruct-tuples) and [equality](#tuple-equality) sections for C#-specific patterns.

> A *tuple* groups multiple values into a single, lightweight structure without requiring you to define a named type. Tuples are value types that you can declare inline, return from methods, and deconstruct into individual variables. Use tuples when you need a quick, temporary grouping of related values. For example, returning multiple results from a method or storing a coordinate pair.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A *tuple* groups multiple values into a single, lightweight structure without requiring you to define a named type. Tuples are value types that you can declare inline, return from methods, and deconstruct into individual variables. Use tuples when you need a quick, temporary grouping of related values. For example, when you return multiple results from a method or store a coordinate pair.
```
